Intel Xeon w31 75 X got a lot of
coverage from us at launch and other
reviewers as well as some chilled
overclocking streams that eventually led
to our more recent - Alan - o sees
dreams it's gotten barely any coverage
from anyone since as both Intel and AMD
have continued to raise core accounts on
their more consumer-oriented CPUs and
the idea of an unlocked 28 core 56
thread Xeon has become a little less
special
still 56 threads is a massive number far
more than the 18 core 36 thread 10 9 8
exe and within spitting distance of an
these new 32 core 64 thread 39 70 X
we're not going to let the W 31 75 X 2
slip quietly into the night so it'll go
loudly in today's video where we're
looking at how it stacks up to the CPUs
that have released in the year since
launch before that this video is brought
to you by Lee Ann Lee is 11 dynamic
Excel the O 11 dynamic X Al's a follow
up to the critically acclaimed 11
dynamic but it's bigger to support more
complex built we've done air cooling
builds and an elaborate liquid cooling
build in the O 11 dynamic Excel and
we're confident and recommending the
case is one of the best options on the
market learn more about the LAN Li 11
dynamic excel at the link in the
description below today we're revisiting
the Intel Xeon w31 75 X CPU which is
Intel's 28 core 56 thread solution and
it's a good time to revisit because with
threader / 3 in the picture now we have
didn't she leave like a week ago
dude you lock me in the supply room yeah
I ran out of snacks I had to eat thermal
paste yeah that exact I might as well
Bryan came here to sabotage us which is
why I lost my voice the other day so
after I caught whatever he brought down
from Maryland we decided to finish this
review and this is the cooler
that's where crying to be using for most
of this so the 31 75 X as we said in our
review is almost impossibly hard to cool
with anything anything close to
reasonable this is the closest to
reasonable you can
because it's only a three hundred sixty
millimeter CLC which is fine for an h
EDT cpu except the part where we had to
strap night egg fans to it which run at
something like 70 DBA at 20 inches or so
so it's it's damn near deafening really
and anxiety-inducing if you have to sit
in the room and listen to it but that's
what's required to get an overclock to
actually hold so we break some rules
here we're for typically these high on
CPUs anything that's mainstream desktop
we stop at 280 CLC's anything that's h
EDT we stop out at 360 this is like it
was extreme serious when it came out and
a normal 360 doesn't even get it close
to what it's supposed to be able to do
so it's it's kind of a balance between
how do you do a reasonably fair review
with constraints but also represent the
product and at the end of the day the
3175 ax loses in a lot of tests anyway
so we figured we'd give the best chance
we could strap the most ridiculous
cooler we could to it without going
open-loop or chilled water and see how
it does against a more reasonably cooled
39 70 X or 39 60 X we sort of mentioned
this in our 10 900 X review where these
comparisons are made more difficult by
availability the 31 75 X was barely
present to begin with but now much after
its launch thinking launched on January
of 2019 it's on Amazon for around $3500
it's just a bit higher than it should be
really and there's a consumer c6 21
motherboard which is the chipset for
these we often called it X 599 or X 499
whatever but it's really c6 21 and that
board if you can find one would sell for
about $1000 so you have $4,500 CPU plus
board which is insane the 39.6 DX is
about 1,400 to be fair the new thread
Ripper stuff is basically non-existent
also can't really find it in stock it'll
get there but it'll take another month
or so to equalize the stock levels
either way though 1,400 bucks for the
CPU motherboard you can get under a
thousand if you want 3970 X is like 2
grand for the CPU so no matter what
you're you could almost build 2 4
all thredUP or three workstations for
the cost of one of these intel 3175 bags
workstations because Intel's pricing
hasn't changed on these there's also an
issue just availability in general some
of the motherboards for c6 21 only 50 of
them were made when the processor came
out so a good luck getting a board EVGA
is the latest to the party they just put
out their SR 3 I think it's called which
is a great board but it's unfortunate
that EVGA is reliant upon another
partner for it to actually be relevant
but either way there's not a lot of
volume and that's one of the problems
anyway let's get into our benchmarks
will start with production go into games
and then talk a bit more about if this
thing's worth it and when it might be
our production benchmarks will start
with Adobe Premiere rendering which is
the test that's the most relevant to us
as a company
our original test results back before
the new AMD launches had us wanting to
buy a 3175 ax for use in a rendering
machine as we can't use our test CPU
since they have to be reserved for
benchmarking we never did buy one given
the pricing and availability issues but
that turned out to be a good thing these
charts will use different tests than
were used in our original review from
January so we can't compare them
directly but we have all new data anyway
as in our original testing the 3175 ax
clocked some of the fastest render times
of any cpu we've tested straight out of
the box it managed to render our 1080p
benchmark video in 2.3 minutes
tying it with the overclocked 39 70 X
and just seconds behind me 1098 Exe
overclocked at its impressive 4.9
gigahertz overclocking the 31 75 X tied
it up for the fastest render time on the
chart so far bumping it's a 2.2 minute
although this gain is only four point
three percent render time reduction from
stock and these stock performance had it
roughly tied with the stock 31 75 X at
two point four minutes render time
required the 39 60 X doc CPU ran at 2.5
minutes also reasonably close and
allowed the Intel 3175 axial lead of
only 4% from stock to stock but the 39
60 X
as a much less upfront cost a hell of a
lot less and it's more while the
motherboards rather used are more easily
found cheaper still the 3950 acts
finished in 2.8 minutes when stock
allowing the 3175 acts of 14% time
reduction that's not bad for a $750 part
matched up against a bunch of
multi-thousand dollar parts or at least
$1400 in the case of the cheapest of
these for the more intensive 4k 60
render this stock 31 75 X was already
faster than anything else we'd tested at
five point seven minutes and it only got
faster still when overclocked with a
final render time of 5.1 minutes the
render time reduction after an all core
OC to four point one gigahertz was ten
and a half percent which is massive when
compared to the previous chart but still
not great when compared to these 600
watts plus power consumption the most
relevant comparisons for us are 4k
rendering with a stock 31 75 X versus
the 3970 acts and 3960 acts when all of
them are stock and the 30 125 X was
about 5 to 7 percent faster than either
of these stock to stock if the 3175 acts
didn't cost so much and if the boards
weren't so hard to find and it's so
expensive it might be worth it to buy
one for rendering rather than using the
3960 ax but given the cost and the
availability it's it's just really
incredibly hard to justify the 31 75 X
if if it can be justified at all
overclocked to the 39 70 X runs at five
point nine minutes for the render
allowing the overclocked 31 75 X a 14%
render time reduction overclocking has
always been where the 31 75 X has shot
it's an overclockable Xeon that's the
whole point of it and that remains true
here but cooling is almost impossibly
hard and the accompany and heat dumped
into the room is similarly challenging
either way the 3970 acts and the 3960
accent to some extent even lower
performing 3950 acts are all much easier
to justify for this workload but if you
need the best of the best and you're not
willing to compromise
you can still do the 3175 acts it's just
that we're not sure how long it will
remain a chart-topper and the
overclocking cost in cooling noise and
thermals is obscene so it's that's a
really small use case blenders next our
test for open source 3d animation and
tile based rendering uses blender
blender is among the most popular studio
applications in the world and it's grown
considerably in the last year with the
support from Epic Games blender scales
with core and thread count more than any
other test we published since each tile
spawns for one threat the GN monkeyhead
render is first using a mix of visual
effects that produce a very load on the
CPU we also have a GN logo ray tracing
render that we'll talk about next
between these two render files we're
able to somewhat isolate frequency
benefits and see where some CPUs change
rank with the monkeyhead render the 3175
x stock cpu completes in 7.6 minutes
which has it between the 18 for 10 9 8
exe at 4.9 gigahertz and the 3960 x
stock cpu the 39 60 X is a 24 core CPU
which runs at a thread deficit to the 31
75 X but manages a render time
requirement reduction of 9% overclocking
the 31 75 X allows it to leap ahead to
6.1 minute a mass of 20% time reduction
from the stock the 39 70 X stock CPU at
32 cores manages 5.6 minutes though for
a completion time that is 8 percent
faster than the overclocked 3175 X if we
were to talk power and we will later the
39 70 X is significantly more efficient
at a couple hundred Watts versus the up
where its it's somewhat comical of 600
to 700 watts the GN logo render is next
the logo render is also primarily
responsible for the 4.1 gigahertz OC
limit on our production benchmarks as
trying to render that file with a
sufficient voltage to maintain 4.5
gigahertz was quickly pushing a CPU
beyond 110 C
even with the massive ek CLC and
alarmingly fast and physically dangerous
70 DBA at 20-inch night egg fans that we
use for these tests the 39 70 X didn't
exist when the 31 75 acts lost but it
does now and there are cheaper ways to
speed up CP renders than a $3,000 e on
and a literal hurricane in your computer
case the 31 75 X stock CPU finished in
nine point three minutes compared to
eight point nine on the last gen 32 core
thread Riverpark
the 39 60 X completed the benchmarks in
8.1 minutes illustrating the gains of
this Xen generation and allowing a
render time reduction of 13% versus the
3175 ACT overclocking the 4.1 gigahertz
all core on the 31 75 acts definitely
helped but the overclocked 3970 acts
still beat it with a 22% time reduction
and also the stock one beat it too so
not really everything we need Photoshop
is next this one is in some ways akin to
gaming workloads and that it doesn't
make great use of high core counts
that's doubly bad news for the 31 75 X
since we had to dial back the overclock
from our gaming clocks for all of these
production tests the overall stock 31 75
X CPU was at 1021 points in the
performance range of AMD is much cheaper
3700 X and 3,800 x r7 CPUs this is not
an application that requires a
workstation CPU as illustrated by the
9900 Kay holding first place on the
charts the overclocked 5.2 gigahertz
9900 K leads the chart with an overall
score 12 percent higher than the stock
31 75 acts and overclocked you know 31
75 acts barely raised its performance
the thread Ripper 39 70 X scored 1088
points here just a little better than
the Xeon but a respectable difference
given the lightly threaded game
benchmark results that we'll cover in a
moment either way though
you shouldn't really be buying either of
these CPUs if Photoshop is the only
thing you do or the primary thing you do
you should be looking at something more
like in mind a 900 K
more frequency advantaged 7-zip is next
for benchmarks looking at compression
and decompression measured in millions
of instructions per second the Intel
Xeon w31 75 X that's a new record in
compression with an impressive score of
166 thousand MIPS the previous leader
was the overclocked 3970 ax at one
hundred and forty nine thousand mips but
the stock 3175 ax beat that by eleven
point two percent and when it was
overclocked - it widened that gap to
almost 21% this particular task doesn't
seem to care too much about frequency as
is evidenced by the small jump from the
10 980 x e at 116,000 mips for stock to
124 thousand maps for the overclocked
result so we think this comes down to
maybe an instruction set that aims he
doesn't have or some architectural
difference as for decompression and
these stalls a massive lead here with a
top score of three hundred and seventy
seven thousand mips for the overclocks
3970 x as opposed to two hundred fifty
three thousand mips for the overclocks
3175 ax the gap is an insane lead of
forty nine percent for the 39 70 X or 51
percent one stock the 39 60 X for
reference manages a lead at two hundred
fifty four thousand MIPS of 8.5% while
being $1400 instead of three grand or so
this is a good reminder that among
production workloads there are some
highly specific tasks with some highly
specific performance differences between
AMD Intel and their individual CPUs
we'll be bringing back a compilation
test and other such workloads and future
CPU benchmarks to v-ray is another
render benchmark but much smaller than
the blender test that we do core count
on the 3970 x gives it a lead here again
at twenty seconds to render at stock
settings versus 24 seconds on the 31 75
X and eighteen point seven seconds
versus 20 seconds overclocked versus
overclocked stock turbo for the 31 75 X
is 3 point 8 gigahertz but even bumping
enough to just 4.1 gigahertz across 28
cores which is hard to maintain mind you
can't mean to make up for the 3970 X's
core account advantage in some workloads
like this one the 39 60 X is roughly
tied with the 31 75 acts when both are
stock and a 3950 acts for reference runs
notably slower than all of these at 36
seconds render time although still
really good comparatively moving on to
games now we can start looking at how
things perform on the other side of what
the CPU is doing our tests shadow of the
tomb Raider's first up a DX 12 game that
we found to tolerate tight core counts
fairly well even though it's not the
main faction performance for these CPUs
the W 3175 axe came out of the gate very
strong with a stock average of 165 fps
and 0.1% low is averaging almost 100 FPS
there's no reason to expect a Xeon to
excel at gaming but it did have good
frame time pacing and overall
performance coming fairly close to the
performance of the stock 9700 K or 9900
K there was jazz 23.3% lead for the
stock 9900 K in comparison the 3970 axe
averaged at just 143 FPS stock and
overclocked while the W 3175 axe boasted
a few FPS higher than stock to a 169 FPS
average went at 4.5 gigahertz these
numbers don't top the chart they're
pretty close for silicon that wasn't
really designed with this in mind but
obviously we'd still recommend something
else for gaming focus builds as this
really isn't meant for gaming neither as
thread Ripper the question is only can
they still do it reasonably well without
encountering some kind of weird issue
like sometimes you have scheduling
behavioral issues in the OS we're having
high core accounts can actually ruin a
gaming experience so we're just looking
for that and we're not seeing that here
from thread Ripper or from the 31 75 X
hitman 2 is our next of the 2d x12
titles after shadow of the Tomb Raider
and it's similarly friendly towards high
core counts at 1080p the stock W 31 75 X
held 1 30 FPS average with the stock and
9900 K
a increase in its advantage to 4.5% the
3970 X average 123 FPS and again showed
barely any benefit at all from an all
core overclock since the stock limited
core boost on rising 3000 CPUs is almost
always higher than a practically
achievable all core overclocked
overclocking the 3175 ax had much better
results with a 16.7%
uplift over stock to 152 FPS average the
4.5 gigahertz overclock is much more
difficult to maintain without an extreme
cooling solution though and wouldn't be
feasible with that ridiculous open-loop
cooling with potentially loud fans
hitman two scales performs reasonably at
1440p although GPU limitations begin to
appear at the top of the chart the W 31
75 X loses almost all of the
overclocking performance gains with a
129 FPS OC average versus 125 FPS
average stock the 3970 X's Performance
meanwhile is almost unchanged from 1080p
with a 121 FPS average which makes sense
when considering that the CPUs bottle
that came the GPU so of course it
wouldn't change the overclocked
1098 exe and 10900 X are the only ones
that rise head and shoulders above the
rest of the scores in this test with
most mid to high end CPUs averaging in
the 110 to 130 FPS rate again though you
really shouldn't be buying any of these
chips from playing games as a primary
use case it's more of a secondary
consideration between workstation tasks
civilization 6 turn time testing is up
now which looks at how long it takes a
processor to simulate an AI players turn
rather than looking at FPS this is the
first title where the stock 39 some of
the X has an advantage over the 31 75
acts with a 5.1 percent reduction an
average turn time from 30 3.1 seconds to
30 1.4 seconds as usual overclocked in
the 39 70 X had barely any effect wildly
3175 ax-cut times significantly down to
twenty nine point six seconds our
experience with this title is that
pretty much any cpu with more than four
cores scales based on frequency and that
continues to be true here although
frequencies can't be compared obviously
between AMD and intel they can be
compared to intro architecture
the fastest to average turn time so far
here are with the 4.9 gigahertz
overclocked to 1090 dxe5 gigahertz 10
900 X 5.1 99 okay and so on the 31 35 X
keeps up pretty well at 4.5 here Hertz
but the difficulty of all who are over
clocks only increases with the number of
cores Assassin's Creed is next starting
at 1080p at 1080 P the 31 35 acts ran
Assassin's Creed at 126 FPS average but
fell behind to mainstream desktop CPUs
like the 3900 X at 134 fps stock or the
9900 K at 140 fps stock the 39 70 X also
did about 6.6 percent better than the
Intel 31 75 X here at stock settings
averaging around 130 for FPS regardless
oversee while the 31 75 acts at
leapfrogged it with an OC up to 139 FPS
at 4.5 diggers this is measurable but
it's not meaningful or perceptible
there's no difference in how the game
feels between these two results none of
our results for this test I've gotten
much more than 140 FPS average so that
puts it up against the same performance
limit test the 9700 K and 900k stock and
overclocked Assassin's Creed have 1440p
doesn't change much for the overclocks
although more rank is lost in the stock
results as load shifts around to demand
more in latency bound scenarios the 31
35 X stock result now runs at 108 FPS
average around the 3800 acts and 2700 x
OC results the 39 70 X and 3960 acts sit
toward the middle near the 3900 acts
nothing is unplayable bad we just lose
some framerate the 3175 axe does
relatively poorly here overall despite
still being playable
just obviously not something we'd prefer
to buy for only this f1 at 1080p is our
next game f1 always scores the highest
average frame rates of all of our tests
far beyond anything required for playing
this game especially but it still has
really good scaling represented between
the CPUs and for that it's useful the 31
75 X stock averaged at 299 FPS with some
extremely poor 47 FPS 0.1% lows a
reflection of some scheduling issues
on the Intel 28 core CPU that end up
showing up in the frame time consistency
of playback the 39 70 X average to 263
fps but with moderately better 82 FPS
0.1% lows overclocking the 31 75 X
raised its average by eight point eight
percent the 325 fps suddenly one of the
best results we've had for this game
beating the overclocked 9900 k + KS and
falling just behind the overclocked to
10 9 8 Exe we think this has something
to do with the mash overclock as moving
to 30x improves latency and we know f1
can have some memory dependencies 1440p
for f1 20 18 positions the 3175 acts at
240 FPS average 1 overclocked about tied
with an i5 9600 case stock cpu and at
about 236 average stock near the 1098
exe stock or I 5 8400 CPU this isn't
really the right workload for the part
clearly the 39 70 X is also not a
stellar performer down in the lower
portion of the chart it's overclocked in
her performance to as the 3970 acts with
an all core OC will lose top-end single
core frequencies GTA 5 is an old standby
but still one of our best titles for
keeping things CPU limited all the way
to the top of the stack the W 31 75 X
averaged 1 10 FPS stock the 39 and 70 X
is also not a stellar performer down in
the lower portion of the chart it's
overclocked her performance to as the
3970 acts with an all core OC Woolies
top and single core frequencies
overclocking again had a definite impact
on the Xeon raising its 132 FPS average
and bumping up against the top of the
chart once again the 900 KS clocked to 5
point 2 gigahertz is right above it at
135 FPS we never see CPUs with core
countless high scoring this well in
games and it's still impressive even
after a year to see a Xeon with 56
threads
capable of scoring like overclocked
desktop parts and an old and lightly
threaded gaming benchmark most of the
performance is definitely coming from
the frequency though the stack for GTA 5
is the same at 1440p so that performance
wasn't a fluke then we can move on right
away at worst
total war Warhammer
and bug out when running on high core
count CPUs but for the 3175 ax had just
turned in a relatively lackluster
performance of 97 FPS without any
stuttering or bad 0 under 7 lows the 39
70 X did a little better at 104 FPS
average but if falls prey to the same
problems the stock 8 core 16th red 9900
K average to 179 FPS here clearly the
software has an issue but it's a
real-world problem that users may have
to deal with overclocking the 31 75 X
helped a little and raised its average
5.4 percent to 102 FPS but that doesn't
compare to the leap seen and some other
benchmarks finally for power numbers
will just show blender to get an idea
for performance this is where the W 31
75 X starts to look kind of bad if it
didn't already the 39 70 X finished its
GM logo render and 31% less time while
requiring 24 percent less power there's
a time reduction for rendering and a
power consumption reduction if you're
running a lot of boxes for some sort of
localized render farm you'd save a lot
in power with a 39 70 X instead
especially once you start considering
external cooling requirements like AC
BTUs or something the 31 75 X at the
higher power consumption when forced
with extreme cooling like open-loop
pushes north of 600 watts which is
starting to get ridiculous especially
considering the efficiency of the
alternative chips working into the
conclusion compatible motherboards for
threader for 3000 CPUs are cheaper and
more varied
even though there are currently only two
CPUs that fit the socket STR X 40 boards
the 39 60 X and 3970 axe versus the many
Zeon's that technically fit LGA 3647
there are just 3 motherboards purpose
built specifically for the overclockable
W 31 75 X each competes for a fraction
of a fraction of an audience EVGA s r3
again is the newest but we've got a bad
feeling that it might be the second
that's our board in a row that gets let
down by a dearth of overclockable Zeon's
the W 31 75 X was sold in small numbers
more as a headline grabber than anything
and it worked it was actually a really
good CPU when it came out we wanted it
for production machines if it weren't so
expensive we would have
by now but it's good that we didn't
because it's lost a lot of that hold to
the new threader for three parts and the
pricing hasn't really changed so we
noted in our original review that it was
unclear if ever when these CPUs and
motherboards would be available outside
of the the small volumes are outside of
pre-built systems which is where they
were kind of targeted initially those
doubts were justified because a year
later there's a decent chance that
there's actually more open-loop Hardware
available for these things than the
actual product itself ek is probably
sitting on a mountain of these coolers
that they can't get rid of the
motherboard vendors we know one of them
at least has about 300 that they're
sitting on right now of their board
because they committed to a bigger order
later and now they're stuck with them
so as for how many of these CPUs sold an
intact noted a quote low four-digit
number for the 31 75 X and that sounds
about right for overclocking we it's
it's fun but it's a purely enthusiast
thing and now the 3970 X is winning and
some stuff like x buy anyway so it
doesn't really matter and even though
you can do 4.5 gigahertz on this with
this cooler even it doesn't hold the 19
except for games so it doesn't really
matter a whole lot and of course you
never need a 28 core CP for gaming
anyway because you end up worst in a lot
of cases and almost all if not all cases
then a 9900 K so this isn't our 31 75 X
review we already wrote that this is a
revisit and we still can't help caution
you to just not by the CPU if you have a
really specific use case maybe
decompression then I guess you're a
better judge than we are at that point
so you can figure it out but on average
our our choice is to skip the 31 75 X
now we liked it a lot originally it
wasn't something we could recommend
necessarily just because of the price
but there were instances like Adobe
Premiere where it made a lot of sense
and those are mostly caught away so it's
objectively a good CPU but it is not a
competitive CPU like the 10 900 and the
10 910 980 XE they're objectively good
they're just not competitive
and that means you shouldn't really be
buying them so that's three visit of the
3175 axe thread Ripper really makes it
look kind of bad in a lot of instances
except for maybe one or two and it's not
even really our choice for extreme
overclocking anymore either which is not
something we expected because Intel's
held that realm forever so that's it
thanks for watching subscribe for more
go to store documents access net to grab
our disappointment build t-shirt which
has the 10 9 8 exe referenced on it and
you should also check out the
disappointment PC build if you haven't
seen that video put a lot of work into
it or go to patreon.com/scishow cameras
access for behind-the-scenes videos
thanks for watching we'll see you all
next time
[Music]